[Blog] Add blog for vega + tsvb mds visualizations (#2837)
opensearch-project/project-website: _posts/2024-05-02-vega-tsvb-mds-visualizations.markdown

---
layout: post
title:  "Creating Visualizations Leveraging Multiple Data Sources"
authors:
 - wronghuy
date: 2024-05-02
categories:
 - technical-post
meta_keywords: multiple data source, vega, tsvb
meta_description: Learn how to create tsvb and vega visualizations with the multiple data sources feature.
excerpt: In 2.13 and 2.14 release, multiple data sources (MDS) now supports Vega and TSVB. In this blog, we will explore how to leverage different OpenSearch clusters to view your data.
---

## Introduction

> In 2.4, OpenSearch Dashboards introduced the [multiple data sources feature](https://opensearch.org/blog/multiple-data-source/) (MDS), which enables users to visualize their data from different OpenSearch clusters. While MDS provided compatibility with most of Dashboards visualizations, there were a few visualization types that were not compatible. With 2.13 and 2.14 release, however, Dashboards introduces multiple data sources compatibility with two of those visualizations: Vega and TSVB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Multiple data sources](https://opensearch.org/blog/multiple-data-source/) gives users the capability to visualize data from various OpenSearch clusters. To date, only certain visualization types have been available. With the release of OpenSearch Dashboards 2.14, multiple data sources is now compatible with  [Vega](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/dashboards/visualize/vega/) and [Time-Series Visual Builder (TSVB)](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/dashboards/visualize/viz-index/#tsvb)) visualizations types.
```

Reviewer: Who is the developer that can write end user documentation for TSVB? I can support the developer in getting it published to the OpenSearch doc site.

## What is TSVB and Vega

> [Time-Series Visual Builder (TSVB)](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/dashboards/visualize/viz-index/#tsvb) is data visualization tool in OpenSearch Dashboards that enables users to create detailed time-series visualizations. One of its main features is the ability to place annotations, or markers, at specific points in time based on index data. This can be helpful for making associations between two or more indexes. In addition to time-series visualizations, TSVB provides Area, Line, Metric, Gauge, Markdown, and Data Table panels for users to switch between. As of 2.14, users can choose which data source their data can come from.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TSVB is a data visualization tool for creating detailed time-series visualizations. Its key feature is the ability to add annotations or markers at specific time points based on index data, enabling associations between multiple indexes. In addition to time-series visualizations, TSVB offers area, line, metric, gauge, markdown, and data table panels. As of OpenSearch Dashboards version 2.14, users can choose the data source for their visualizations.
```

> [Vega](https://vega.github.io/vega/) and [Vega-lite](https://vega.github.io/vega-lite/) are open-source, declarative language visualization tools that you can use to create custom data visualizations with your OpenSearch data and [Vega Data](https://vega.github.io/vega/docs/data/). These tools are ideal for advanced users comfortable with writing OpenSearch queries directly. As of 2.13, users can specify a `data_source_name` to each OpenSearch query adding .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Vega](https://vega.github.io/vega/) and [Vega-Lite](https://vega.github.io/vega-lite/) are open-source, declarative visualization tools for creating custom data visualizations using OpenSearch data and [Vega Data](https://vega.github.io/vega/docs/data/). These tools are suitable for advanced users comfortable with writing OpenSearch queries directly. As of OpenSearch Dashboards version 2.13, users can specify a `data_source_name` for each OpenSearch query.
```

> ## Creating MDS Visualizations with TSVB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Creating TSVB visualizations using multiple data sources
```

> ### Getting started

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 1. Before proceeding, ensure that the following configs are enabled:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Before proceeding, ensure that the following configurations are enabled in your `opensearch_dashboards.yml` file:
```

```
data_source.enabled: true
vis_type_timeseries.enabled: true
```

> 2. Navigate to `Home` -> `Add sample data` and under `Sample web logs`, click `Add data`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Navigate to the OpenSearch Dashboards **Home** page.
3. Select **Add sample data** and then select the **Add data** button for the **Sample web logs** dataset.
```

### Step 1: Create the visualization

> 1. From the side navigation bar, navigate to `Visualize`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. From the left-side menu, navigate to **Visualize**.
```

> 2. Click `Create Visualization` and then click `TSVB`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select **Create Visualization** and then select **TSVB**.
```

### Step 2: Specify your data

> Once created, you might see data pop up. TSVB uses your default index pattern to initialize the visualization. If you want to change it and/or configure some additional settings, the following steps show how you can customize your visualization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After creating a TSVB visualization, data may appear based on your default index pattern. To change the index pattern or configure additional settings, follow these steps to customize your visualization:
```

> 1. Click `Panel options`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select **Panel options**.
```

2. Under `Data source`, select which OpenSearch cluster to pull data from. In this case, we are choosing `Local cluster`
3. Under `Index name`, type in `opensearch_dashboards_sample_data_logs`

> 4. Under `Time field`, select `@timestamp`. This indicates which timestamps to render the visualization from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Under **Time field**, select `@timestamp`. This setting specifies the time range for rendering the visualization.
```

![tsvb](/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-02-vega-tsvb-mds-visualizations/tsvb.png)

### Step 3 (Optional): Add annotations
Annotations are powerful tools that can be used to place markers on your data. Currently, it is used only for the time series visualization panel

> 1. Towards the top of the page, navigate to `Time Series`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On the upper-left of the page, navigate to **Time Series**.
```

Reviewer: Confirm the location on the the page.

2. Click on `Annotations` tab
3. Click `Add data source`
4. Under `Index name` specify the index of your choice. To keep things simple, we will use the same index as before (`opensearch_dashboards_sample_data_logs`)
5. Under `Time field`, select `@timestamp`
6. Under `Fields`, type in `timestamp`
7. Under `Row template`, type in `{{timestamp}}`
8. The visualization should auto-update, showing you the markers
![tsvb-with-annotations](/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-02-vega-tsvb-mds-visualizations/tsvb-with-annotations.png)

## Creating MDS Visualizations with Vega
### Getting started
1. Before proceeding, ensure that the following configs are enabled:
```
data_source.enabled: true
vis_type_vega.enabled: true
```
2. Navigate to `Home` -> `Add sample data`

> 3. Add a datasource by navigating to `Dashboards Management` -> `Data sources`. Click `Create data source connection` and add your data source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. From the left-side menu, navigate to **Dashboards Management** and select **Data sources**. 
5. Select **Create data source connection** and then add your data source.
```

> 4. Under `Data source`, select your newly created data source and under `Sample web logs`, click `Add data`

Reviewer: Is a step missing after **Add data**. What is the user supposed to do after they select **Add data**?

### Step 1: Create the visualization
1. From the side navigation bar, navigate to `Visualize`

> 2. Click `Create Visualization` and then click `Vega`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select **Create Visualization** and then **Vega**.
```

> ### Step 2: Add the Vega spec

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 2: Add Vega specifications
```

> 1. Paste the following Vega spec. Make sure your newly created datasource is specified under `data_source_name`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify that the data source you created is specified under `data_source_name`.
2. Copy the following Vega specification. 
```

      index: opensearch_dashboards_sample_data_logs
      data_source_name: YOUR_DATA_SOURCE_TITLE
      body: {
        aggs: {
          1: {
            date_histogram: {
              field: @timestamp
              fixed_interval: 3h
              time_zone: America/Los_Angeles
              min_doc_count: 1
            }
            aggs: {
              2: {
                avg: {
                  field: bytes
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
        size: 0
      }
    }
    format: {
      property: aggregations.1.buckets
    }
  }
  transform: [
    {
      calculate: datum.key
      as: timestamp
    }
    {
      calculate: datum[2].value
      as: bytes
    }
  ]
  layer: [
    {
      mark: {
        type: line
      }
    }
    {
      mark: {
        type: circle
        tooltip: true
      }
    }
  ]
  encoding: {
    x: {
      field: timestamp
      type: temporal
      axis: {
        title: @timestamp
      }
    }
    y: {
      field: bytes
      type: quantitative
      axis: {
        title: Average bytes
      }
    }
    color: {
      datum: Average bytes
      type: nominal
    }
  }
}

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}
```

> 2. Click `Update` to view your data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select the **Update** button to view your data.
```

![vega](/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-02-vega-tsvb-mds-visualizations/vega.png)

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Conclusion
```

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> In this blog, we created TSVB and Vega visualizations with multiple data sources in mind. Creating visualizations for your data has never been more versatile!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
layout: post
title:  "Visualizing data from multiple data sources with TSVB and Vega"
authors:
 - wronghuy
date: 2024-06-06
categories:
 - technical-post
meta_keywords: multiple data source, vega, tsvb, opensearch dashboards
meta_description: Learn how to create TSVB and Vega visualizations with the multiple data sources feature.
excerpt: OpenSearch versions 2.13 and 2.14 now support multiple data sources for Vega and TSVB visualization types. This blog post shows you how to use this feature.
---

## Introduction

> [Multiple data sources](https://opensearch.org/blog/multiple-data-source/) gives users the capability to visualize data from various OpenSearch clusters. To date, only certain visualization types have been available. With the release of OpenSearch Dashboards 2.13 and 2.14, multiple data sources is now compatible with [Vega](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/dashboards/visualize/vega/) and [Time-Series Visual Builder (TSVB)](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/dashboards/visualize/viz-index/#tsvb) visualizations types.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [multiple data sources](https://opensearch.org/blog/multiple-data-source/) feature gives users the capability to visualize data from various OpenSearch clusters. To date, only certain visualization types have been available. With the release of OpenSearch Dashboards 2.13 and 2.14, the multiple data sources feature is now compatible with [Vega](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/dashboards/visualize/vega/) and [Time-Series Visual Builder (TSVB)](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/dashboards/visualize/viz-index/#tsvb) visualization types.
```

[Vega](https://vega.github.io/vega/) and [Vega-Lite](https://vega.github.io/vega-lite/) are open-source, declarative visualization tools for creating custom data visualizations using OpenSearch data and [Vega data](https://vega.github.io/vega/docs/data/). These tools are suitable for advanced users comfortable with writing OpenSearch queries directly. As of OpenSearch Dashboards version 2.13, users can specify a `data_source_name` for each OpenSearch query.

## Creating TSVB visualizations from multiple data sources

Before proceeding, ensure that the following configurations are enabled in your `opensearch_dashboards.yml` file:

```
data_source.enabled: true
vis_type_timeseries.enabled: true
```

### Step 1: Set up and connect data sources

Open OpenSearch Dashboards and follow these steps:

1. Select **Dashboards Management** from the menu on the left.
2. Select **Data sources** and then select the **Create data source** button.
3. From the **Create data source** page, enter the connection details and endpoint URL, as shown in the following GIF.

![create-datasource](/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-02-vega-tsvb-mds-visualizations/create-datasource.gif)

> 4. From the **Home page**, select **Add sample data**. Under **Data source**, select your newly created data source, and then select the **Add data button** for the **Sample web logs** dataset, as shown in the following GIF.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. From the **Home page**, select **Add sample data**. Under **Data source**, select your newly created data source, and then select the **Add data** button for the **Sample web logs** dataset, as shown in the following GIF.
```

1. On the upper-left of the page, select **Time Series**.
2. Select the **Annotations** tab and then **Add data source**.
3. In the **Index name** field, specify the appropriate index. In this case, continue using the same index from the previous steps, that is, `opensearch_dashboards_sample_data_logs`.
4. Under **Time field**, select `@timestamp`.
5. In **Fields**, enter `timestamp`.
6. In **Row template**, enter ``timestamp``.

The visualization automatically updates to display your annotations, as shown in the following image.
![tsvb-annotations](/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-02-vega-tsvb-mds-visualizations/tsvb-with-annotations.png)

## Creating Vega visualizations from multiple data sources

Before proceeding, ensure that the following configurations are enabled in your `opensearch_dashboards.yml` file:

```
data_source.enabled: true
vis_type_vega.enabled: true
```

### Step 1: Set up and connect data sources

Open OpenSearch Dashboards and follow these steps:

1. Select **Dashboards Management** from the menu on the left.
2. Select **Data sources** and then select the **Create data source** button.

> 3. From the Create data source page, enter the connection details and endpoint URL, as shown in the following GIF.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. From the **Create data source** page, enter the connection details and endpoint URL, as shown in the following GIF.
```

![create-datasource](/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-02-vega-tsvb-mds-visualizations/create-datasource.gif)

> 4. From the **Home page**, select **Add sample data**. Under **Data source**, select your newly created data source, and then select the **Add data button** for the **Sample web logs** dataset, as shown in the following GIF.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. From the **Home page**, select **Add sample data**. Under **Data source**, select your newly created data source, and then select the **Add data** button for the **Sample web logs** dataset, as shown in the following GIF.
```

![add-sample-data](/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-02-vega-tsvb-mds-visualizations/add-sample-data.gif)
Now that you have completed the setup, you can start visualizing your data.

### Step 2: Create the visualization

> 1. From the left-side menu, select **Visualize**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. From the menu on the left, select **Visualize**.
```

2. From the **Visualizations** page, select **Create Visualization** and then select **Vega** from the pop-up window, as shown in the following images.

![create-visualizations-button](/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-02-vega-tsvb-mds-visualizations/create-visualization-button.jpg)
![create-vega-button](/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-02-vega-tsvb-mds-visualizations/vega-create-visualization-button.jpg)

### Step 3: Add the Vega specification

1. Verify that the data source you created is specified under `data_source_name`.

> 2. Copy the following Vega specification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Copy the following Vega specification:
```

              time_zone: America/Los_Angeles
              min_doc_count: 1
            }
            aggs: {
              2: {
                avg: {
                  field: bytes
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
        size: 0
      }
    }
    format: {
      property: aggregations.1.buckets
    }
  }
  transform: [
    {
      calculate: datum.key
      as: timestamp
    }
    {
      calculate: datum[2].value
      as: bytes
    }
  ]
  layer: [
    {
      mark: {
        type: line
      }
    }
    {
      mark: {
        type: circle
        tooltip: true
      }
    }
  ]
  encoding: {
    x: {
      field: timestamp
      type: temporal
      axis: {
        title: @timestamp
      }
    }
    y: {
      field: bytes
      type: quantitative
      axis: {
        title: Average bytes
      }
    }
    color: {
      datum: Average bytes
      type: nominal
    }
  }
}
```

3. Select the **Update** button in the lower-right corner to visualize your data, as shown in the following GIF.

![configure-vega](/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-02-vega-tsvb-mds-visualizations/configure-vega.gif)
## Conclusion

> In this blog, we created TSVB and Vega visualizations with multiple data sources in mind. Creating visualizations for your data has never been more versatile! Connect with the OpenSearch Project multiple data sources team to give feedback about how this capability is working for you. You can reach the team at https://forum.opensearch.org/t/feedback-multiple-data-sources-support-for-tsvb-and-vega/19598.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this blog post, we showed you how to create TSVB and Vega visualizations from multiple data sources. Creating visualizations for your data has never been more versatile! Connect with the OpenSearch Project multiple data sources team to give feedback about how this capability is working for you. You can reach the team at https://forum.opensearch.org/t/feedback-multiple-data-sources-support-for-tsvb-and-vega/19598.
```

---
layout: post
title:  "Creating visualizations using multiple data sources"
authors:
 - wronghuy
date: 2024-05-28
categories:
 - technical-post
meta_keywords: multiple data source, vega, tsvb
meta_description: Learn how to create TSVB and Vega visualizations with the multiple data sources feature.
excerpt: OpenSearch versions 2.13 and 2.14 now support multiple data sources for Vega and TSVB visualization types. This blog post shows you how to use this feature.
---

# Visualizing data from multiple data sources with TSVB and Vega

> ## Introduction

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> ## Introduction

Reviewer 2: We only need one heading here 😄

> [Multiple data sources](https://opensearch.org/blog/multiple-data-source/) gives users the capability to visualize data from various OpenSearch clusters. To date, only certain visualization types have been available. With the release of OpenSearch Dashboards 2.13 and 2.14, multiple data sources is now compatible with [Vega](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/dashboards/visualize/vega/) and [Time-Series Visual Builder (TSVB)](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/dashboards/visualize/viz-index/#tsvb) visualizations types.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [multiple data sources feature](https://opensearch.org/blog/multiple-data-source/) gives you the capability to visualize data from various OpenSearch clusters. To date, only certain visualization types have been available. With the release of OpenSearch Dashboards 2.13 and 2.14, multiple data sources are now supported for [Vega](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/dashboards/visualize/vega/) and [Time-Series Visual Builder (TSVB)](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/dashboards/visualize/viz-index/#tsvb) visualizations types.
```

> Read on to learn how you can visualize your data from multiple data sources using these visualization types with OpenSearch Dashboards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Read on to learn how you can visualize your data from multiple data sources using these visualization types in OpenSearch Dashboards.
```

## What are TSVB and Vega?

> TSVB is a data visualization tool for creating detailed time-series visualizations. Its key feature is the ability to add annotations or markers at specific time points based on index data, enabling associations between multiple indexes. In addition to time-series visualizations, TSVB offers area, line, metric, gauge, markdown, and data table panels. As of OpenSearch Dashboards version 2.14, users can choose the data source for their visualizations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TSVB is a data visualization tool for creating detailed time-series visualizations. Its key feature is the ability to add annotations or markers at specific time points based on index data, enabling associations between multiple indexes. In addition to time-series visualizations, TSVB offers area, line, metric, gauge, markdown, and data table panels. As of OpenSearch Dashboards version 2.14, users can choose the data source(s) for their visualizations.
```

Author: Users can choose only one data source at a time for their TSVB visualizations This edit implies that TSVB can support multiple concurrent data sources

Reviewer 2: Ah, OK, I was thinking along the lines of "multiple." Go ahead and ignore 😄

> [Vega](https://vega.github.io/vega/) and [Vega-Lite](https://vega.github.io/vega-lite/) are open-source, declarative visualization tools for creating custom data visualizations using OpenSearch data and [Vega Data](https://vega.github.io/vega/docs/data/). These tools are suitable for advanced users comfortable with writing OpenSearch queries directly. As of OpenSearch Dashboards version 2.13, users can specify a `data_source_name` for each OpenSearch query.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Vega](https://vega.github.io/vega/) and [Vega-Lite](https://vega.github.io/vega-lite/) are open-source, declarative visualization tools for creating custom data visualizations using OpenSearch data and [Vega data](https://vega.github.io/vega/docs/data/). These tools are suitable for advanced users comfortable with writing OpenSearch queries directly. As of OpenSearch Dashboards version 2.13, users can specify a `data_source_name` for each OpenSearch query.
```

## Creating TSVB visualizations from multiple data sources

Before proceeding, ensure that the following configurations are enabled in your `opensearch_dashboards.yml` file:

```
data_source.enabled: true
vis_type_timeseries.enabled: true
```

### Step 1: Set up and connect data sources

Open OpenSearch Dashboards and follow these steps:

> 1. Select **Dashboards Management** from the left-side menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Select **Dashboards Management** from the menu on the left.
```

> 2. Select **Data sources** from the left-side menu and then select the **Create data source** button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Select **Data sources** and then select the **Create data source** button.
```

> 3. From the Create data source page, enter the connection details and endpoint URL, as shown in the following GIF.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. From the **Create data source** page, enter the connection details and endpoint URL, as shown in the following GIF.
```

![create-datasource](/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-02-vega-tsvb-mds-visualizations/create-datasource.gif)
4. From the **Home page**, select **Add sample data**. Under **Data source**, select your newly created data source, and then select the **Add data button** for the **Sample web logs** dataset, as shown in the following GIF.

![add-sample-data](/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-02-vega-tsvb-mds-visualizations/add-sample-data.gif)
Now that you have completed the setup, you can start visualizing your data.

### Step 2: Create the visualization

Follow these steps to create the visualization:

> 1. From the left-side menu, select **Visualize**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. From the menu on the left, select **Visualize**.
```

> 2. From the **Visualizations** page, select **Create Visualization** and then select **TSVB** from the pop-up window, as shown in the following images.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. From the **Visualizations** page, select **Create Visualization** and then select **TSVB** in the pop-up window, as shown in the following images.
```

![create-visualization-button](/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-02-vega-tsvb-mds-visualizations/create-visualization-button.jpg)
![create-tsvb-button](/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-02-vega-tsvb-mds-visualizations/tsvb-create-visualization-button.jpg)
3. Proceed with specifying your data source.

### Step 3: Specify your data

After creating a TSVB visualization, data may appear based on your default index pattern. To change the index pattern or configure additional settings, follow these steps to customize your visualization:

1. Select **Panel options**.

> 2. From **Data source**, select the OpenSearch cluster from which to pull data. In this case, choose your newly created data source.

Reviewer 2: "From" => "Under"?

> 3. From **Index name**, enter `opensearch_dashboards_sample_data_logs`.

Reviewer 2: "From" => "Under"?

> 4. Under **Time field**, select `@timestamp`. This setting specifies the time range for rendering the visualization.

Reviewer 2: "From" => "Under"?

The following GIF shows these steps in action.
![configure-tsvb](/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-02-vega-tsvb-mds-visualizations/configure-tsvb.gif)
The following image shows the TSVB visualization output.
![tsvb-visualization](/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-02-vega-tsvb-mds-visualizations/tsvb.png)

> ### Step 4:  Add annotations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Step 4: Add annotations
```

Annotations allow you to place markers on your time-series visualization data. Follow these steps to annotate your visualization:

1. On the upper-left of the page, select **Time Series**.
2. Select the **Annotations** tab and then **Add data source**.
3. In the **Index name** field, specify the appropriate index. In this case, continue using the same index from the previous steps, that is, `opensearch_dashboards_sample_data_logs`.

> 4. From **Time field**, select `@timestamp`.

Reviewer 2: "From" => "Under"?

5. In **Fields**, enter `timestamp`.
6. In **Row template**, enter ``timestamp``.

> The automatically updates to display your annotations, as shown in the following image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The visualization automatically updates to display your annotations, as shown in the following image.
```

![tsvb-annotations](/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-02-vega-tsvb-mds-visualizations/tsvb-with-annotations.png)

## Creating Vega visualizations from multiple data sources

Before proceeding, ensure that the following configurations are enabled in your `opensearch_dashboards.yml` file:

```
data_source.enabled: true
vis_type_vega.enabled: true
```

### Step 1: Set up and connect data sources

Open OpenSearch Dashboards and follow these steps:

> 1. Select **Dashboards Management** from the left-side menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Select **Dashboards Management** from the menu on the left.
```

> 2. Select **Data sources** from the left-side menu and then select the **Create data source** button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Select **Data sources** and then select the **Create data source** button.
```

> 3. From the Create data source page, enter the connection details and endpoint URL, as shown in the following GIF.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. From the **Create data source** page, enter the connection details and endpoint URL, as shown in the following GIF.
```

![create-datasource](/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-02-vega-tsvb-mds-visualizations/create-datasource.gif)
4. From the **Home page**, select **Add sample data**. Under **Data source**, select your newly created data source, and then select the **Add data button** for the **Sample web logs** dataset, as shown in the following GIF.

![add-sample-data](/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-02-vega-tsvb-mds-visualizations/add-sample-data.gif)
Now that you have completed the setup, you can start visualizing your data.

### Step 2: Create the visualization

> 1. From the left-side menu, select **Visualize**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. From the menu on the left, select **Visualize**.
```

> 2. From the **Visualizations** page, select **Create Visualization** and then select **Vega** from the pop-up window, as shown in the following images.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. From the **Visualizations** page, select **Create Visualization** and then select **Vega** in the pop-up window, as shown in the following images.
```

![create-visualizations-button](/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-02-vega-tsvb-mds-visualizations/create-visualization-button.jpg)
![create-vega-button](/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-02-vega-tsvb-mds-visualizations/vega-create-visualization-button.jpg)

### Step 3: Add the Vega specification

1. Verify that the data source you created is specified under `data_source_name`.

> 2. Copy the following Vega specification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Copy the following Vega specification:
```

              time_zone: America/Los_Angeles
              min_doc_count: 1
            }
            aggs: {
              2: {
                avg: {
                  field: bytes
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
        size: 0
      }
    }
    format: {
      property: aggregations.1.buckets
    }
  }
  transform: [
    {
      calculate: datum.key
      as: timestamp
    }
    {
      calculate: datum[2].value
      as: bytes
    }
  ]
  layer: [
    {
      mark: {
        type: line
      }
    }
    {
      mark: {
        type: circle
        tooltip: true
      }
    }
  ]
  encoding: {
    x: {
      field: timestamp
      type: temporal
      axis: {
        title: @timestamp
      }
    }
    y: {
      field: bytes
      type: quantitative
      axis: {
        title: Average bytes
      }
    }
    color: {
      datum: Average bytes
      type: nominal
    }
  }
}
```

3. Select the **Update** button in the lower-right corner to visualize your data, as shown in the following GIF.

![configure-vega](/assets/media/blog-images/2024-05-02-vega-tsvb-mds-visualizations/configure-vega.gif)
## Conclusion

> In this blog, we created TSVB and Vega visualizations with multiple data sources in mind. Creating visualizations for your data has never been more versatile! Connect with the OpenSearch Project multiple data sources team to give feedback about how this capability is working for you. You can reach the team at https://forum.opensearch.org/t/feedback-multiple-data-sources-support-for-tsvb-and-vega/19598.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this blog post, you created TSVB and Vega visualizations from multiple data sources. Creating visualizations for your data has never been more versatile! You can provide feedback about how this capability is working for you at https://forum.opensearch.org/t/feedback-multiple-data-sources-support-for-tsvb-and-vega/19598.
```
